README.md, before:

# N8N Launcher

A cross-platform desktop application to easily start your local N8N instance. Built with Tauri (Rust backend) and React (TypeScript frontend), this launcher provides a user-friendly interface for Docker container lifecycle management, status monitoring, and log viewing for a complete N8N stack.

![N8N Launcher Screenshot](app-print.jpg)

## 📥 Download

Get the latest version of N8N Launcher for your platform:

| Platform | Download |
|----------|----------|
| 🍎 **macOS** | [Download for macOS](https://github.com/juanpujol/n8n-launcher/releases/download/v0.1.3/n8n-launcher_0.1.3_aarch64.dmg) |
| 🪟 **Windows** | [Download for Windows](https://github.com/juanpujol/n8n-launcher/releases/download/v0.1.3/n8n-launcher_0.1.3_x64_en-US.msi) |

> 💡 **Tip**: For the latest releases and all available formats, visit our [Releases page](https://github.com/juanpujol/n8n-launcher/releases).

## Features

- 🐳 **Docker Management**: Start/stop N8N stack with PostgreSQL, Redis, and N8N services
- 📊 **Status Monitoring**: Real-time Docker container status checking
- 📝 **Log Viewing**: View N8N container logs directly in the app
- 🖥️ **Cross-Platform**: Supports macOS (Intel/Apple Silicon) and Windows
- 🔒 **Secure**: Restricted shell access with Tauri capabilities
- ⚡ **Fast**: Built with Rust backend and React frontend

## Prerequisites

- **Docker Desktop** must be installed and running
- **Bun** runtime for development

## Installation

### From Releases
Download the latest release for your platform:
- **macOS**: Download the `.dmg` file or `.zip` containing the `.app` bundle
- **Windows**: Download the `.msi` installer or `.exe` portable version

### Development Setup

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd pocket-n8n
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
bun install
```

## Development

### Frontend Development
```bash
# Start Vite development server (port 5173)
bun run dev

# Build frontend for production
bun run build

# Preview production build
bun run preview
```

### Tauri Development
```bash
# Start Tauri app in development mode (includes frontend hot reload)
bun run tauri:dev

# Build Tauri app for production/distribution
bun run tauri:build
```

### Platform-Specific Builds
```bash
# Build for macOS Apple Silicon
bun run tauri:build:mac

# Build for macOS Intel
bun run tauri:build:mac-intel

# Cross-compilation to Windows/Linux not supported locally
# Use GitHub Actions workflow for multi-platform builds
```

### Code Formatting
```bash
# Format code with Biome
bun run lint
```

## Architecture

### Tech Stack
- **Frontend**: React 19 + TypeScript + Vite
- **Backend**: Rust + Tauri
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS + Radix UI components
- **Build**: Tauri bundler for native app packaging

### Docker Stack
The application manages a complete N8N environment with:
- **PostgreSQL 16**: Database with health checks
- **Redis 7**: Queue management with authentication
- **N8N Editor**: Main interface (port 5678)
- **N8N Webhook**: Dedicated webhook processor
- **N8N Worker**: Background job processor

### Security
- Shell access restricted to specific Docker commands via Tauri capabilities
- Ad-hoc code signing enabled for macOS builds
- No direct filesystem access beyond configured permissions

## Usage

1. **Launch the app** - The N8N Launcher will start with a clean interface
2. **Check Docker status** - App verifies Docker is installed and running
3. **Start N8N** - Click to start the complete N8N stack via Docker Compose
4. **Monitor status** - View real-time container status and logs
5. **Access N8N** - Open N8N web interface at `http://localhost:5678`
6. **Stop when done** - Cleanly stop all containers when finished

## Configuration

### Environment Variables
The Docker stack supports customization via environment variables:
- `N8N_PORT`, `N8N_HOST`, `N8N_PROTOCOL` - URL configuration
- `DB_POSTGRESDB_*` - Database credentials
- `QUEUE_BULL_REDIS_PASSWORD` - Redis authentication
- `EXECUTIONS_DATA_MAX_AGE`, `EXECUTIONS_DATA_PRUNE_MAX_COUNT` - Execution limits

### N8N Configuration
- Default port: 5678 (configurable via N8N_PORT)
- Queue-based execution with Redis backing
- PostgreSQL for persistent data storage
- Automatic data pruning (168 hours max age, 1000 execution limit)
- Shared volume for data persistence across container restarts

## Contributing

This project uses:
- **Bun** for package management and running scripts
- **Biome** for code formatting and linting
- **GitHub Actions** for automated builds and releases

## Building Releases

Releases are automated via GitHub Actions. To create a new release:

1. Use the "Cross-Platform Release" workflow in GitHub Actions
2. Choose version bump type (patch/minor/major) or specify custom version
3. Workflow will:
   - Update version in all relevant files
   - Create git tag
   - Build for all platforms
   - Create GitHub release with changelog
   - Upload platform-specific artifacts

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2025 N8N Launcher

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

docs: enhance README with security notice and installation instructions for macOS and Windows
- Added an important security notice regarding the lack of official code signing certificates
- Included detailed installation steps for macOS and Windows users to address potential security warnings
- Clarified that the application is safe to use despite being unsigned

README.md, after:

# N8N Launcher

A cross-platform desktop application to easily start your local N8N instance. This launcher provides a user-friendly interface for Docker container lifecycle management, status monitoring, and log viewing for a complete N8N stack.

![N8N Launcher Screenshot](app-print.jpg)

## ⚠️ Important Security Notice

**N8N Launcher is a simple prototype built without official Apple or Microsoft code signing certificates.** This means your operating system will show security warnings when you first run the application.

### 🍎 macOS Installation

1. **Download and open the .dmg file**
2. **Drag N8N Launcher to Applications folder**
3. **When you first run the app**, macOS will show: *"N8N Launcher cannot be opened because it is from an unidentified developer"*
4. **To authorize the app:**
   - Go to **System Preferences** → **Security & Privacy** → **General**
   - You'll see a message about N8N Launcher being blocked
   - Click **"Open Anyway"**
   - Confirm by clicking **"Open"** in the dialog

### 🪟 Windows Installation

1. **Download and run the .msi installer**
2. **Windows may show**: *"Windows protected your PC"* or *"Unknown publisher"*
3. **To authorize the app:**
   - Click **"More info"** on the Windows Defender SmartScreen dialog
   - Click **"Run anyway"**
   - Complete the installation as normal

> **Why this happens:** Since this is a prototype application, I haven't purchased expensive code signing certificates from Apple or Microsoft. The app is completely safe to use - your OS is just being cautious about unsigned applications.

## 📥 Download

Get the latest version of N8N Launcher for your platform:

| Platform | Download |
|----------|----------|
| 🍎 **macOS** | [Download for macOS](https://github.com/juanpujol/n8n-launcher/releases/download/v0.1.3/n8n-launcher_0.1.3_aarch64.dmg) |
| 🪟 **Windows** | [Download for Windows](https://github.com/juanpujol/n8n-launcher/releases/download/v0.1.3/n8n-launcher_0.1.3_x64_en-US.msi) |

> 💡 **Tip**: For the latest releases and all available formats, visit our [Releases page](https://github.com/juanpujol/n8n-launcher/releases).

## Features

- 🐳 **Docker Management**: Start/stop N8N stack with PostgreSQL, Redis, and N8N services
- 📊 **Status Monitoring**: Real-time Docker container status checking
- 📝 **Log Viewing**: View N8N container logs directly in the app
- 🖥️ **Cross-Platform**: Supports macOS (Intel/Apple Silicon) and Windows
- 🔒 **Secure**: Restricted shell access with Tauri capabilities
- ⚡ **Fast**: Built with Rust backend and React frontend

## Prerequisites

- **Docker Desktop** must be installed and running
- **Bun** runtime for development

## Installation

### From Releases
Download the latest release for your platform:
- **macOS**: Download the `.dmg` file or `.zip` containing the `.app` bundle
- **Windows**: Download the `.msi` installer or `.exe` portable version

### Development Setup

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd pocket-n8n
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
bun install
```

## Development

### Frontend Development
```bash
# Start Vite development server (port 5173)
bun run dev

# Build frontend for production
bun run build

# Preview production build
bun run preview
```

### Tauri Development
```bash
# Start Tauri app in development mode (includes frontend hot reload)
bun run tauri:dev

# Build Tauri app for production/distribution
bun run tauri:build
```

### Platform-Specific Builds
```bash
# Build for macOS Apple Silicon
bun run tauri:build:mac

# Build for macOS Intel
bun run tauri:build:mac-intel

# Cross-compilation to Windows/Linux not supported locally
# Use GitHub Actions workflow for multi-platform builds
```

### Code Formatting
```bash
# Format code with Biome
bun run lint
```

## Architecture

### Tech Stack
- **Frontend**: React 19 + TypeScript + Vite
- **Backend**: Rust + Tauri
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS + Radix UI components
- **Build**: Tauri bundler for native app packaging

### Docker Stack
The application manages a complete N8N environment with:
- **PostgreSQL 16**: Database with health checks
- **Redis 7**: Queue management with authentication
- **N8N Editor**: Main interface (port 5678)
- **N8N Webhook**: Dedicated webhook processor
- **N8N Worker**: Background job processor

### Security
- Shell access restricted to specific Docker commands via Tauri capabilities
- Ad-hoc code signing enabled for macOS builds
- No direct filesystem access beyond configured permissions

## Usage

1. **Launch the app** - The N8N Launcher will start with a clean interface
2. **Check Docker status** - App verifies Docker is installed and running
3. **Start N8N** - Click to start the complete N8N stack via Docker Compose
4. **Monitor status** - View real-time container status and logs
5. **Access N8N** - Open N8N web interface at `http://localhost:5678`
6. **Stop when done** - Cleanly stop all containers when finished

## Configuration

### Environment Variables
The Docker stack supports customization via environment variables:
- `N8N_PORT`, `N8N_HOST`, `N8N_PROTOCOL` - URL configuration
- `DB_POSTGRESDB_*` - Database credentials
- `QUEUE_BULL_REDIS_PASSWORD` - Redis authentication
- `EXECUTIONS_DATA_MAX_AGE`, `EXECUTIONS_DATA_PRUNE_MAX_COUNT` - Execution limits

### N8N Configuration
- Default port: 5678 (configurable via N8N_PORT)
- Queue-based execution with Redis backing
- PostgreSQL for persistent data storage
- Automatic data pruning (168 hours max age, 1000 execution limit)
- Shared volume for data persistence across container restarts

## Contributing

This project uses:
- **Bun** for package management and running scripts
- **Biome** for code formatting and linting
- **GitHub Actions** for automated builds and releases

## Building Releases

Releases are automated via GitHub Actions. To create a new release:

1. Use the "Cross-Platform Release" workflow in GitHub Actions
2. Choose version bump type (patch/minor/major) or specify custom version
3. Workflow will:
   - Update version in all relevant files
   - Create git tag
   - Build for all platforms
   - Create GitHub release with changelog
   - Upload platform-specific artifacts

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
